Add EEP-00: Governance Model and Code of Conduct (#307)
OpenSourceEconomics/estimagic: docs/source/development/eep-00-governance-model.md

any help is needed or anything remains unclear. We are all happy to help onboarding new
contributors in any way necessary. For example, we have given introductions to git and
GitHub in the past to help people make a contribution to estimagic.

Pull requests should be opened as soon as work is started. They should contain a good
description of the planned work such that any interested party can participate in the
discussion around the changes. If planned changes turn out to be controversial, their
design should be discussed in an Estimagic Enhancement Proposal before the actual
work starts. When the work is finished, the author of a pull
request can request a review. In most cases, previous discussions will show who is a
suitable reviewer. If in doubt, tag [janosg](https://github.com/janosg). Pull requests
can be merged if there is at least one approving review.

Reviewers should be polite, welcoming and helpful to the author of the pull request
who might have spent many hours working on the changes. Major points should be discussed
publicly on GitHub, but very critical feedback or small details can be moved to private

> discussions. Video calls can help if a discussion gets stuck. Keep in mind that many

Reviewer: ```suggestion
discussions — if the latter are necessary at all (see
[the bottom section of this blog post](https://rgommers.github.io/2019/06/the-cost-of-an-open-source-contribution/)
for an excellent discussion of the burden that review comments place on
maintainers, which might not always be obvious).
Video calls can help if a discussion gets stuck. 
```

Reference is great, but should be broader than just the point that many people get emails IMO.

> people get notified on every review comment (see [here](https://rgommers.github.io/2019/06/the-cost-of-an-open-source-contribution/) for an execellent discussion).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The code of conduct applies to all interactions related to code reviews.

> ### Estimagic Enhancement Proposals (EEPs) / Controversial decision process

Reviewer: If the convention is to have "estimagic" always in lowercase, I do not think we should capitalize in titles or as first word of a sentence, either. But no strong opinion. Should just be consistent, e.g. line 80 is lowercase in the middle of some text but line 109 capitalised.

Large changes to estimagic can be proposed in Estimagic Enhancement Proposals, short

> EEPs. They serve the purpose of summarising discussions

Reviewer: Just a reminder to run automatic line-wrapping before merging.

Reviewer 2: Done.

that may happen in chats, issues, pull requests, in person, or by any other means.
Simple extensions (like adding new optimizers) do not need to be discussed with such
a formal process.

EEPs are written as markdown documents that become part of the documentation. Opening
an EEP means opening a pull request that adds the markdown document to the documentation.
It is not necessary to already have a working implementations for the planned changes,
even though it might be a good idea to have rough prototypes for solutions to the most
challenging parts.

If the author of an EEP feels that it is ready to be accepted they need to make a

> post in our [zulip workspace](https://ose.zulipchat.com) and a comment on the PR that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
post in the relevant [Zulip topic](https://ose.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/221432-estimagic/topic/EEPs) and a comment on the PR that
```

3. If there are no unresolved objections after seven days, the EEP will automatically
   be accepted and can be merged.

Note that the pull requests that actually implement the proposed enhancements still
require a standard review cycle.

### Steering Council

The Estimagic Steering Council consists of five people who take responsibility for
the future development of estimagic and the estimagic community. Being a member of the
steering council comes with no special rights. The main roles of the steering council
are:

- Facilitate the growth of estimagic and the estimagic community by organizing community
events, identifying funding opportunities and improving the experience
of all community members.
- Develop a roadmap, break down large changes into smaller projects and find contributors
to work on the implementation of these projects.
- Ensure that new contributors are onboarded and assisted and that pull requests are
reviewed in a timely fashion.
- Step in as moderators when discussions get heated, help to achieve consensus on
controversial topics and enforce the code of conduct.

Current memebers of the Estimagic Steering Council are:

> [Janoś Gabler](https://github.com/janosg), [Annica Gehlen](https://github.com/amageh), [Hans-Martin von Gaudecker](https://github.com/hmgaudecker), [Tim Mensinger](https://github.com/timmens) and [Mariam Petrosyan](https://github.com/mpetrosian).

Reviewer: Order alphabetically? Maybe a bulleted list?

Reviewer 2: Done.

(eep-00)=

# EEP-00: Governance model & code of conduct

```{eval-rst}
+------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Author     | `Maximilian Blesch <https://github.com/MaxBlesch>`_,             |
|            | `Janoś Gabler <https://github.com/janosg>`_,                     |
|            | `Hans-Martin von Gaudecker <https://github.com/hmgaudecker>`_,   |
|            | `Annica Gehlen <https://github.com/amageh>`_,                    |
|            | `Sebastian Gsell <https://github.com/segsell>`_,                 |
|            | `Tim Mensinger <https://github.com/timmens>_,                    |
|            | `Mariam Petrosyan <https://github.com/mpetrosian>`_,             |
|            | `Tobias Raabe <https://github.com/tobiasraabe>`_,                |
|            | `Klara Röhrl <https://github.com/roecla>`_                       |
+------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | Status     | Draft                                                            |

Reviewer 3: Wouldn't we need to change the status here once adopted?

Reviewer 2: Done.
